docs/materials/index.md, before:

# OSG Virtual School (pilot) Materials

## Intro to HTC and HTCondor

Lecture recording will be linked here.

### Intro Exercises 1: Running and Viewing Simple Jobs (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 1.1: Log in to the local submit machine and look around](/materials/htc/part1-ex1-login)
- [Exercise 1.2: Experiment with HTCondor commands](/materials/htc/part1-ex2-commands.md)
- [Exercise 1.3: Run jobs!](/materials/htc/part1-ex3-jobs.md)
- [Exercise 1.4: Read and interpret log files](/materials/htc/part1-ex4-logs.md)
- [Exercise 1.5: Determining Resource Needs](/materials/htc/part1-ex5-request.md)
- [Exercise 1.6: Remove jobs from the queue](/materials/htc/part1-ex6-remove.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 1.7: Compile and run some C code](/materials/htc/part1-ex7-compile.md)

### Intro Exercises 2: Running Many HTC Jobs

- [Exercise 2.1: Work with input and output files](/materials/htc/part2-ex1-files.md)
- [Exercise 2.2: Use `queue N`, `$(Cluster)`, and `$(Process)`](/materials/htc/part2-ex2-queue-n.md)
- [Exercise 2.3: Use `queue from` with custom variables](/materials/htc/part2-ex3-queue-from.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 2.4: Use `queue matching` with a custom variable](/materials/htc/part2-ex4-queue-matching.md)

### Bonus Exercises: Job Attributes and Handling

- [Bonus Exercise 3.1: Explore `condor_q`](/materials/htc/part3-ex1-queue.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 3.2: Explore `condor_status`](/materials/htc/part3-ex2-status.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 3.3: A job that needs retries](/materials/htc/part3-ex3-job-retry.md)

## OSG

## Software

### Software Exercises 1: Basic Software and Wrapper Script Use (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 1.1: Work With Downloaded Software](/materials/sw/part1-ex1-download.md)
- [Exercise 1.2: Use a Wrapper Script To Run Software](/materials/sw/part1-ex2-wrapper.md)

### Software Exercises 2: Specific Software Examples (Pick One)

- [Exercise 2.1: Compiling and Running a Simple Code](/materials/sw/part2-ex1-compiling.md)
- [Exercise 2.2: Compiling a Research Software](/materials/sw/part2-ex2-prepackaged.md)
- [Exercise 2.3: Compiling Python and Running Jobs](/materials/sw/part2-ex3-python.md)
- [Exercise 2.4: Compiling Matlab and Running Jobs](/materials/sw/part2-ex4-matlab.md)

### Software Exercises 3: Using Containers in Jobs (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 3.1: Using Software in a Singularity Container](/materials/sw/part3-ex1-singularity.md)

### Software Exercises 4: Bonus Exercises

- [Exercise 4.1: Using Arguments With Wrapper Scripts](/materials/sw/part4-ex1-arguments.md)
- [Exercise 4.2: Additional Python ](/materials/sw/part4-ex2-python-extras.md)
- [Exercise 4.3: Using Software in a Docker Container](/materials/sw/part4-ex3-docker.md)

## Data

# Bonus Topics

## Workflows with DAGMan

Lecture Slides([PPT](/materials/workflows/files/osgvsp20-bonus-dagman.pptx),[PDF](/materials/workflows/files/osgvsp20-bonus-dagman.pdf))

## GPUs and Containers

## More Grid

Commit message:

adding overview and htcondor presentations

docs/materials/index.md, after:

# OSG Virtual School (pilot) Materials

## School Overview and Intro to HTC

Slides ([PPT](/materials/files/osgvsp20-overview.pptx),[PDF](/materials/files/osgvsp20-overview.pdf))

## Intro to HTCondor Job Execution

Slides ([PPT](/materials/files/osgvsp20-htc-htcondor.pptx),[PDF](/materials/files/osgvsp20-htc-htcondor.pdf))

### Intro Exercises 1: Running and Viewing Simple Jobs (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 1.1: Log in to the local submit machine and look around](/materials/htc/part1-ex1-login)
- [Exercise 1.2: Experiment with HTCondor commands](/materials/htc/part1-ex2-commands.md)
- [Exercise 1.3: Run jobs!](/materials/htc/part1-ex3-jobs.md)
- [Exercise 1.4: Read and interpret log files](/materials/htc/part1-ex4-logs.md)
- [Exercise 1.5: Determining Resource Needs](/materials/htc/part1-ex5-request.md)
- [Exercise 1.6: Remove jobs from the queue](/materials/htc/part1-ex6-remove.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 1.7: Compile and run some C code](/materials/htc/part1-ex7-compile.md)

### Intro Exercises 2: Running Many HTC Jobs (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 2.1: Work with input and output files](/materials/htc/part2-ex1-files.md)
- [Exercise 2.2: Use `queue N`, `$(Cluster)`, and `$(Process)`](/materials/htc/part2-ex2-queue-n.md)
- [Exercise 2.3: Use `queue from` with custom variables](/materials/htc/part2-ex3-queue-from.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 2.4: Use `queue matching` with a custom variable](/materials/htc/part2-ex4-queue-matching.md)

### Bonus Exercises: Job Attributes and Handling

- [Bonus Exercise 3.1: Explore `condor_q`](/materials/htc/part3-ex1-queue.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 3.2: Explore `condor_status`](/materials/htc/part3-ex2-status.md)
- [Bonus Exercise 3.3: A job that needs retries](/materials/htc/part3-ex3-job-retry.md)

## OSG

## Software

### Software Exercises 1: Basic Software and Wrapper Script Use (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 1.1: Work With Downloaded Software](/materials/sw/part1-ex1-download.md)
- [Exercise 1.2: Use a Wrapper Script To Run Software](/materials/sw/part1-ex2-wrapper.md)

### Software Exercises 2: Specific Software Examples (Pick One)

- [Exercise 2.1: Compiling and Running a Simple Code](/materials/sw/part2-ex1-compiling.md)
- [Exercise 2.2: Compiling a Research Software](/materials/sw/part2-ex2-prepackaged.md)
- [Exercise 2.3: Compiling Python and Running Jobs](/materials/sw/part2-ex3-python.md)
- [Exercise 2.4: Compiling Matlab and Running Jobs](/materials/sw/part2-ex4-matlab.md)

### Software Exercises 3: Using Containers in Jobs (Strongly Recommended)

- [Exercise 3.1: Using Software in a Singularity Container](/materials/sw/part3-ex1-singularity.md)

### Software Exercises 4: Bonus Exercises

- [Exercise 4.1: Using Arguments With Wrapper Scripts](/materials/sw/part4-ex1-arguments.md)
- [Exercise 4.2: Additional Python ](/materials/sw/part4-ex2-python-extras.md)
- [Exercise 4.3: Using Software in a Docker Container](/materials/sw/part4-ex3-docker.md)

## Data

# Bonus Topics

## Workflows with DAGMan

Lecture Slides([PPT](/materials/workflows/files/osgvsp20-bonus-dagman.pptx),[PDF](/materials/workflows/files/osgvsp20-bonus-dagman.pdf))

## GPUs and Containers

## More Grid
