docs/materials/osg/ex2-login-scp.md, before:

---
status: testing
---

Grid Exercise 2: Log in to the OSG Submit Server
================================================

The goal of this exercise is to log in to a different submit host so that you can start submitting jobs into the OSG
instead of the local cluster here at UW-Madison.
Additionally, you will learn about the `tar` and `scp` commands, which will allow you to efficiently copy files between
the two submit servers.

If you have trouble getting `ssh` access to the submit server, ask the instructors right away! Gaining access is
critical for all remaining exercises.

Log in to the OSG submit server
--------------------------------

For some of the remaining exercises in this topic, you will be using a server named `login04.osgconnect.net`.
To log in to this server, you will be using the username and SSH key that you setup when you registered for OSG Connect.
If you no longer have this information, please ask your mentor for help.

Once you have your account details, `ssh` in to the server and take a look around.

Preparing files for transfer
----------------------------

When transferring files between computers, it's best to limit the number of files as well as their size.
Smaller files transfer more quickly and if your network connection drops, restarting the transfer is less painful than
it would be if you were transferring large files.

Archiving tools (WinZip, 7zip, Archive Utility, etc.) can compress the size of your files and place them into a single,
smaller archive file.
The `tar` command is a one-stop shop for creating, extracting, and viewing the contents of `tar` archives (called
tarballs) whose usage is as follows:

-   To **create** a tarball named `<archive filename>` containing `<archive contents>`, use the following command:

        :::console
        user@learn $ tar -czvf <archive filename> <archive contents>

    Where `<archive filename>` should end in `.tar.gz` and `<archive contents>` can be a list of any number of files
    and/or folders, separated by spaces.

-   To **extract** the files from a tarball into the current directory:

        :::console
        user@learn $ tar -xzvf <archive filename>

-   To **list** the files within a tarball:

        :::console
        user@learn $ tar -tzvf <archive filename>

Using the above knowledge, log into `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`, create a tarball that contains the Grid exercise 1 directory,
and verify that it contains all the proper files.

### Comparing compressed sizes

You can adjust the level of compression of `tar` by prepending your command with `GZIP=--<COMPRESSION>`, where
`<COMPRESSION>` can be either `fast` for the least compression, or `best` for the most compression (the default
compression is between `best` and `fast`).

1.  Log in to `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`
1.  Create and change into a new folder for this exercise, for example `grid-ex2`
1.  Use `wget` to download the following files from our web server:
    1.  Text file: <http://proxy.chtc.wisc.edu/SQUID/osgschool19/random_text>
    1.  Archive: <http://proxy.chtc.wisc.edu/SQUID/osgschool19/pdbaa.tar.gz>
    1.  Image: <http://proxy.chtc.wisc.edu/SQUID/osgschool19/obligatory_cat.jpg>
1.  Use `tar` on each file and use `ls -l` to compare the sizes of the original file and the compressed version.

Which files were compressed the least? Why?

Transferring files
------------------

### Using secure copy

[Secure copy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_copy) (`scp`) is a command based on `SSH` that lets you securely copy
files between two different hosts.
It takes similar arguments to the `cp` command that you are familiar with but also takes additional host information:

```console
user@login04 $ scp <source 1> <source 2>...<source N> [username@]<remote host>:<remote path>
```

`<remote path>` may be excluded if you want to copy your sources to your remote home directory and `[username@]` may be
excluded if your usernames are the same across both servers.
For example, if I were logged in to `login04.osgconnect.net` and wanted to copy the file `foo` from my current directory to
my home directory on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`, the command would look like this:

```console
user@login04 $ scp foo learn.chtc.wisc.edu:
```

Additionally, I could also pull files from  `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to `login04.osgconnect.net`.
The following command copies `bar` from my home directory on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to my current directory on
`login04.osgconnect.net`:

``` console
user@login04 $ scp s20_user@learn.chtc.wisc.edu:bar .
```

You can also copy folders between hosts using the `-r` option.
If I kept all my files from the HTC exercise 1.3 in a folder named `htc-1.3` on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`, I could use
the following command to copy them to my home directory on `login04.osgconnect.net`:

``` console
user@login04 $ scp -r s20_user@learn.chtc.wisc.edu:htc-1.3 .
```

From `login04.osgconnect.net`, try copying the tarball you created earlier in this exercise on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to
`login04.osgconnect.net`.

### Secure copy from your laptop

During your research, you may need to retrieve output files from your submit host to inspect them on your personal
server, which can also be done with `scp`! To use `scp` on your laptop, follow the instructions relevant to your
server's operating system:

#### Mac and Linux users

`scp` should be included by default and available via the terminal on both Mac and Linux operating systems.
Open a terminal window on your laptop and try copying the tarball containing the Grid exercise 1 from
`login04.osgconnect.net` to your laptop.

#### Windows users

WinSCP is an `scp` client for Windows operating systems.

1.  Install WinSCP from <https://winscp.net/eng/index.php>
1.  Start WinSCP and enter your SSH credentials for `login04.osgconnect.net`
1.  Copy the tarball containing Grid exercise 1 to your laptop

### Extra challenge: Using rsync

`scp` is a great, ubiquitous tool for one-time transfers but there are better tools if you find yourself transferring
the same set of files to the same location repeatedly.
Another common tool available on many Linux server is `rsync`, which is like a beefed-up version of `scp`.
The invocation is similar to `scp`: you can transfer files and/or folders, but the options are different and when
transferring folders, make sure they don't have a trailing slash (`/`, this means to copy all the files within the
folder instead of the folder itself):

``` console
user@learn $ rsync -Pavz <source 1> <source 2>...<source N> [username@]<remote host>:<remote path>
```

`rsync` has many benefits over `scp` but two of its biggest features are built-in compression (so you don't have to
create a tarball) and the ability to only transfer files that have changed.
Both of these feature are helpful when you're having connectivity issues so that you don't have to restart the transfer
from scratch every time your connection fails.

1.  Log in to `login04.osgconnect.net`
1.  Use `rsync` to transfer the folder containing Grid exercise 1 on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to `login04.osgconnect.net`
1.  In a separate terminal window, log in to `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`
1.  Create a new file in your Grid exercise 1 folder on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` with the `touch` command:

        :::console
        user@learn $ touch <filename>

1. From `login04.osgconnect.net`, use the same `rsync` command to transfer the folder with the new file you just created.
   How many files were transferred the first time? How many files were transferred if you run the same rsync command
   again?

Next exercise
-------------

Once completed, move onto the next exercise: [Running jobs in the OSG](/materials/osg/ex3-submit-osg.md)

Commit message:

Use "server" instead of "host"

docs/materials/osg/ex2-login-scp.md, after:

---
status: testing
---

Grid Exercise 2: Log in to the OSG Submit Server
================================================

The goal of this exercise is to log in to a different submit server so that you can start submitting jobs into the OSG
instead of the local cluster here at UW-Madison.
Additionally, you will learn about the `tar` and `scp` commands, which will allow you to efficiently copy files between
the two submit servers.

If you have trouble getting `ssh` access to the submit server, ask the instructors right away! Gaining access is
critical for all remaining exercises.

Log in to the OSG submit server
--------------------------------

For some of the remaining exercises in this topic, you will be using a server named `login04.osgconnect.net`.
To log in to this server, you will be using the username and SSH key that you setup when you registered for OSG Connect.
If you no longer have this information, please ask your mentor for help.

Once you have your account details, `ssh` in to the server and take a look around.

Preparing files for transfer
----------------------------

When transferring files between computers, it's best to limit the number of files as well as their size.
Smaller files transfer more quickly and if your network connection drops, restarting the transfer is less painful than
it would be if you were transferring large files.

Archiving tools (WinZip, 7zip, Archive Utility, etc.) can compress the size of your files and place them into a single,
smaller archive file.
The `tar` command is a one-stop shop for creating, extracting, and viewing the contents of `tar` archives (called
tarballs) whose usage is as follows:

-   To **create** a tarball named `<archive filename>` containing `<archive contents>`, use the following command:

        :::console
        user@learn $ tar -czvf <archive filename> <archive contents>

    Where `<archive filename>` should end in `.tar.gz` and `<archive contents>` can be a list of any number of files
    and/or folders, separated by spaces.

-   To **extract** the files from a tarball into the current directory:

        :::console
        user@learn $ tar -xzvf <archive filename>

-   To **list** the files within a tarball:

        :::console
        user@learn $ tar -tzvf <archive filename>

Using the above knowledge, log into `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`, create a tarball that contains the Grid exercise 1 directory,
and verify that it contains all the proper files.

### Comparing compressed sizes

You can adjust the level of compression of `tar` by prepending your command with `GZIP=--<COMPRESSION>`, where
`<COMPRESSION>` can be either `fast` for the least compression, or `best` for the most compression (the default
compression is between `best` and `fast`).

1.  Log in to `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`
1.  Create and change into a new folder for this exercise, for example `grid-ex2`
1.  Use `wget` to download the following files from our web server:
    1.  Text file: <http://proxy.chtc.wisc.edu/SQUID/osgschool19/random_text>
    1.  Archive: <http://proxy.chtc.wisc.edu/SQUID/osgschool19/pdbaa.tar.gz>
    1.  Image: <http://proxy.chtc.wisc.edu/SQUID/osgschool19/obligatory_cat.jpg>
1.  Use `tar` on each file and use `ls -l` to compare the sizes of the original file and the compressed version.

Which files were compressed the least? Why?

Transferring files
------------------

### Using secure copy

[Secure copy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Secure_copy) (`scp`) is a command based on `SSH` that lets you securely copy
files between two different servers.
It takes similar arguments to the `cp` command that you are familiar with but also takes additional server information:

```console
user@login04 $ scp <source 1> <source 2>...<source N> [username@]<remote server>:<remote path>
```

`<remote path>` may be excluded if you want to copy your sources to your remote home directory and `[username@]` may be
excluded if your usernames are the same across both servers.
For example, if I were logged in to `login04.osgconnect.net` and wanted to copy the file `foo` from my current directory to
my home directory on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`, the command would look like this:

```console
user@login04 $ scp foo learn.chtc.wisc.edu:
```

Additionally, I could also pull files from  `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to `login04.osgconnect.net`.
The following command copies `bar` from my home directory on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to my current directory on
`login04.osgconnect.net`:

``` console
user@login04 $ scp s20_user@learn.chtc.wisc.edu:bar .
```

You can also copy folders between servers using the `-r` option.
If I kept all my files from the HTC exercise 1.3 in a folder named `htc-1.3` on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`, I could use
the following command to copy them to my home directory on `login04.osgconnect.net`:

``` console
user@login04 $ scp -r s20_user@learn.chtc.wisc.edu:htc-1.3 .
```

From `login04.osgconnect.net`, try copying the tarball you created earlier in this exercise on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to
`login04.osgconnect.net`.

### Secure copy from your laptop

During your research, you may need to retrieve output files from your submit server to inspect them on your personal
server, which can also be done with `scp`! To use `scp` on your laptop, follow the instructions relevant to your
server's operating system:

#### Mac and Linux users

`scp` should be included by default and available via the terminal on both Mac and Linux operating systems.
Open a terminal window on your laptop and try copying the tarball containing the Grid exercise 1 from
`login04.osgconnect.net` to your laptop.

#### Windows users

WinSCP is an `scp` client for Windows operating systems.

1.  Install WinSCP from <https://winscp.net/eng/index.php>
1.  Start WinSCP and enter your SSH credentials for `login04.osgconnect.net`
1.  Copy the tarball containing Grid exercise 1 to your laptop

### Extra challenge: Using rsync

`scp` is a great, ubiquitous tool for one-time transfers but there are better tools if you find yourself transferring
the same set of files to the same location repeatedly.
Another common tool available on many Linux server is `rsync`, which is like a beefed-up version of `scp`.
The invocation is similar to `scp`: you can transfer files and/or folders, but the options are different and when
transferring folders, make sure they don't have a trailing slash (`/`, this means to copy all the files within the
folder instead of the folder itself):

``` console
user@learn $ rsync -Pavz <source 1> <source 2>...<source N> [username@]<remote server>:<remote path>
```

`rsync` has many benefits over `scp` but two of its biggest features are built-in compression (so you don't have to
create a tarball) and the ability to only transfer files that have changed.
Both of these feature are helpful when you're having connectivity issues so that you don't have to restart the transfer
from scratch every time your connection fails.

1.  Log in to `login04.osgconnect.net`
1.  Use `rsync` to transfer the folder containing Grid exercise 1 on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` to `login04.osgconnect.net`
1.  In a separate terminal window, log in to `learn.chtc.wisc.edu`
1.  Create a new file in your Grid exercise 1 folder on `learn.chtc.wisc.edu` with the `touch` command:

        :::console
        user@learn $ touch <filename>

1. From `login04.osgconnect.net`, use the same `rsync` command to transfer the folder with the new file you just created.
   How many files were transferred the first time? How many files were transferred if you run the same rsync command
   again?

Next exercise
-------------

Once completed, move onto the next exercise: [Running jobs in the OSG](/materials/osg/ex3-submit-osg.md)
